# Richard's Coding Wiki

This wiki is where I store literally all of the info and resouces I've obtained right from day one as I pursue my goal of becoming a full time developer.  It begins with the most basic 'ground-level' foundations, and builds upon them. 

It's written by a beginner, for other beginners.  In terms of content, it's as minimalist as possible, relying on high quality material that's already available online.  In terms of scope, it's as comprehensive as necessary to provide a full and complete coverage of what is important from a pragmatic perspective.

I welcome and appreciate any and all critical feedback to improve this wiki, and hope it becomes a useful tool for many who aspire to learn how to code!

### Table of contents
---

- [The Fundamentals](/fundamentals/fmain.wiki)
- [The Developer Environment](/devenv/dmain.wiki)
- [Computer Languages](/languages/lmain.wiki)
- [Resources](/resources/rmain.wiki)

### Current Workspace
---

**Linux Build**

- [] configure polybar (git repo)
- [] get cool terminal fonts installed
- [] Download 4K wallpapers
- [] Install terminal goodies (htop, neofetch, etc)
- [] i3 mnemonic key bindings
- [] i3 open certain programs in workspaces
- [] install Ranger plugins
- [] install Spotify client (if can find Bluetooth USB dongle emulator). Maybe order one on Amazon or BestBuy
- [] install Lazy git
- [] figure out xclip Copy paste
- [] Figure out how to set up automated git repo for .dotfiles management (preferably something from PacMan)
- [] learn the way to safely update the entire system without breaking the packages, especially AUR (do those update along with the system?)
- [] Figure out how to run the LTS kernel and make a guide on it.
- [] Do a basic security check - learn from Arch Wiki.

**Practice**

- [] Vim

**Wiki**

- [] add Fundamentals (algos, syntax, abstraction, problem solving, thinking, etc), installing Ruby (rbenv & gems), apple dev resources, app development
- [] Add laptop git repo for wiki, can edit pages in Markdown).
- [] Add to do list (this stuff)
- [] Figure out how to integrate everything (my website, wiki, everything) to one place.  Hook Gollum to GitLab?

**Learning**

- [] Algorithms and Data Structures
- [] Pragmatic books
- [] Shape Up book

