# Arch Linux

Arch Linux is a very lightweight and customizable Linux distribution that strives for simplicity (defined as *'without unnecessary additions or modifications'*) above all else.  

Arch Linux is a *pragmatic* distribution rather than ideological.  The principles of Arch are only useful guidelines.  Evidence and technical analysis matter, not public opinion or politics.  

Arch Linux is *user centric*, not user friendly.  The distribution doesn't attempt to be anything, it simply exists to fill the needs of the user, and is as customizable as possible.  It caters to those who have a do-it-yourself mindset, who are willing to read the documentation and solve their own problems.

Arch Linux is very versatile, as comes out of the box with only a command line environment with no graphics.  It is a completely blank slate,  with tens of thousands of packages ready to be installed.

Arch Linux is known to have the best Wiki in the entire Linux world, so it is an extremely educational distribution for those wanting to learn exactly how a computer works.

Arch Linux strives to be on the "cutting edge", with a rolling release model that provides the latest stable release versions with continuous upgrades.

### Arch User Guides

---

- [Installation Guide (for Beginners)](/devenv/arch/install.wiki):  this guide supplements the Installation Guide provided by Arch, to make it easier for beginners to be able to install Arch.

- Post Install Guide (for Beginners):  what to do after you've installed Arch.

- Package Management: how to install, uninstall, and upgrade Arch.

- System Backups:  how to backup your Arch installation.

- Setting up a Developer Environment:  setting up an efficient and productive Arch workstation.

### Customizing Arch Linux

- [Polybar](Polybar): highly customizable bar that replaces the default tiling windows manager bar.
- Pywal: generates auto color schemes for your programs based on your background.














