# Creating Your Development Environment

A **[development environment]()** comprises a **"workstation" (computer optimized for development)**, and a**"workspace" (office)**. Creating this environment is mandatory before beginning to code, just as a carpenter needs to set up their shop, workbench, and tools before building a table or chair.

It's best to create this environment before diving into the actual learning how to code.  There are a lot of very beneficial things to do and configure before actually opening an editor to code.   Without a proper environment your work flow will be very inefficient and cause frustration later.  As a beginner looking to start formal training/education in learning to code,  it is extremely challenging to "learn a new language", "how to use a certain software", or "how to problem solve" if the development environment feels foreign to them.   Setting up and becoming somewhat comfortable in this environment 2-4 weeks in advance of starting formal training would be ideal.

### The Goal is Customizing Your Environment for You

Every developer will have different preferences and work styles, and the goal is to create an environment that is custom made for you that maximizes productivity and efficiency while maintaining long term physical and emotional health.  A setup might be productive while causing eye or wrist or back pain isn't sustainable.  On the other hand, a setup might be sustainable yet not efficient, and result in hundreds of hours wasted over one's career.  

[Developer Workstation (Computer)](/devenv/station):  Your developer workstation includes your computer, the operating system, and the set of basic tools that you need to optimize your productivity and efficiency.  

[Developer Workspace (Office)](/devenv/space): Your developer workspace includes your office, your desk, chair, audio, screens, mouse, accessories, etc.
