# Tiling Windows Manager

A **tiling window manager** is a GUI which organizes windows into non-overlapping frames, as opposed to the typical stacking of overlapping windows.  

A tiling windows manager is an essential tool for developers, as they have a large number of windows open at any given time, and need to organize much more efficiently than the typical user.  It prevents a messy disorganized workflow from happening.

It also allows incredibly powerful features such as multiple workspaces and multiple keybinding modes, which essentially make your screens and keyboards infinitely more functional.  For example, if a user creates 20 workspaces on a dual screen setup, they have the ability to switch between 40 screens.  If a user creates 10 keybinding modes, they have ability to switch between 10 keyboards.  This is an extremely useful and timesaving feature, that essentially nullifies the need to use a mouse.

Below are some popular tiling windows managers:

## i3

**Documentation**

- [Official i3 User Guide](https://i3wm.org/docs/): see User's Guide, multi-monitor, etc.
- [Arch Wiki i3 Page](https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/I3): see bottom of page for resources

**Tutorials**

- [Official i3 Tutorials](https://i3wm.org/screenshots/)

Code Cast | [Part 1](https://youtu.be/j1I63wGcvU4) | [Part 2](https://youtu.be/8-S0cWnLBKg) | [Part 3](https://youtu.be/ARKIwOlazKI) |
**Configuring i3**

- [User Manual: Configuring i3](https://i3wm.org/docs/userguide.html#configuring)
	- [Binding Modes](https://i3wm.org/docs/4.14/userguide.html#binding_modes)

**Customization**

- Auto Color scheme (pywal)
- Status Bar (polybar)
- 
- 

